---
title: "Reflections - 2023"
date: 2023-12-31 23:26:00 +0800
categories: [General]
tags: [General, Reflections]
---

2023 has proven to be a rollercoaster ride for me, marked by a blend of both professional and personal highs and lows.

A good chunk of the year was spent at NTU for my very final semester. Looking back, it was surreal being able to graduate from one of the local prestigious universities in Singapore, given my atrocious A-Levels results. While the two years spent in National Service helped made me reflect alot, I would still like to thank NTU for giving me an opportunity to undo many of the bad habits I cultivated in the past and allowing me to obtain a Honors with Distinction in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, something I would not have dared to dream of just a few years back.

The second half of the year involved stepping into the workforce. Considering my field of study, it was undoubtedly a pivotal shift in my career trajectory toward cybersecurity—an ambition I had harbored since my secondary school years. (Time flies, doesn't it?) While majoring in engineering, I thought, why not switch industries while I'm still young and pursue something that I am foreseeably interested in? (It's always important to do something for your career that you like!)

## The Postives

My heartfelt appreciation extends to the Human Resources department at CSA for affording me the invaluable opportunity to embark on a career in the cybersecurity industry straight out of university. I cannot thank them enough for giving someone not related to the industry a chance to prove myself and demonstrate my commitment to a long-term career in this field. It is worth noting that the HR professionals at CSA distinguished themselves as some of the most proficient individuals I have had the privilege of interacting with, setting a benchmark among their counterparts.

Venturing into the cybersecurity industry without any prior experience proved to be extremely challenging and enriching on a personal level. Not to mention, the diverse array of friends and colleagues I encountered throughout this year, encompassing both fellow fresh graduates and mid-career professionals, defintely contributed to my acclimatization to the working world.

### To my CSDP Batch Mates:

I wanted to take a moment to express my gratitude to every one of you for any support you may have extended during the training phase. A shoutout to my team especially. Our efforts not only made studying more bearable (shoutout to the abnormal amount of water we drank) but also created an environment that made the overall experience much more bearable and fun-filled.

A special thanks to some who provided guidance, especially the more experienced and technically inclined individuals. The stuff I learnt from the few of you were very invaluable, and I genuinely appreciate the knowledge-sharing from you all.

And while I won't mention names, I would like to thank one individual for going above and beyond the call of duty. You know who you are. 🫡

Last but not least, I understand that everyone is deeply immersed in their respective divisions within CSA, with communications often limited due to busy schedules.Nevertheless, I wish everyone the best going forward in 2024. Thank you everyone.

To end on a positive note, 2023 undeniably brought about numerous enriching experiences for myself both as a person and a cybersecurity professional.

## The Negatives

Unfortunately, the latter half of 2023 proved to be genuinely mentally taxing for me. I had a couple of personal setbacks, including the loss of not one but two significant individuals in my life, which defintely impacted my mental well-being during the final few months of the year. 

Sharing the details of these experiences is undeniably challenging, and I currently find myself unable to open up about them with anyone. Nevertheless, I acknowledge that these moments are essential to my personal growth, offering me a deeper appreciation for life in general.

Acknowledging that no human is perfect (I am no exception), I also do recognize the mistakes I made in 2023 may contributed to some of the negative experiences I had in my personal life. While learning from these missteps are crucial, rectifying them proves to be the challenging portion. Guess that is something I would need to work on for 2024!

To those who noticed my subdued energy towards the end of 2023, I sincerely apologize if I may not appear as 'proactive' as before. Your understanding and empathetic support truly mean a lot to me. I appreciate your patience, and I am optimistic that, with time, things will take a turn for the better.

## The End?

Here's to hoping that 2024 brings positivity, growth, and better experiences for all of us. 🌟 
"Every journey has its final day. Don't rush."